Good morning everyone. Welcome to your
daily digest for Monday, April 21st,
2025, where I bring you fact-based,
non-sensational, objective information
about what's going on in the broader
blockchain and cryptocurrency space.
Today's digest is going to kick off with
a series of Treasury announcements.
First off, Michael Sailor Strategy has
acquired
6,556 Bitcoin for
$555.8 million.
Metaplanet has acquired 330 Bitcoin for
$28.2 million. A UK firm called Abrais
Capital has acquired
2,949 Bitcoin for more than $250
million. And GSR, a crypto trading and
investment firm, has helped UPUPEXi, a
Tampa based firm that develops,
manufactures, and distributes consumer
products, raise $100 million in private
investment so that it can start a Salana
treasury. Moving on to
RWAS. Block Square has partnered with a
Florida based real estate company called
Vera Capital to tokenize 1 billion of US
commercial properties. To date, Block
Square has been used to tokenize around
150 properties in 28 different countries
at a value of $145 million.
into the institutional realm. Circle,
Bitco, and other entities are applying
for bank charters where others might
follow according to the Wall Street
Journal. Why might these crypto native
entities be applying for bank charters?
Well, a bank charter potentially allows
crypto firms to operate like traditional
lenders, taking deposits and making
loans. Moving on, Circle, the founder
and creator of USDC, is launching a new
payments and remittance network, likely
tied to the fact that there is
potentially positive regulatory outlooks
and reg and positive legislation here in
the US regarding stable coins. Uh a per
a person familiar with the plan said
circle is launching a payments network
that is initially targeting remittances
but is ultimately aiming to rival
Mastercard and Visa. On last Friday's
daily digest, we showed that stable coin
transactions outpaced all payments that
were made on the Visa network in 2024.
Charles Schwab is also eyeing to add
spot bitcoin trading within the next
year or so. Charles Schwab is a
brokerage where people can purchase
index funds and stocks alike for their
traditional brokerage accounts or also
for their retirement accounts. So, we'll
be keeping an eye on brokerages that
start offering more cryptocurrency
offerings.
Um, moving into blockchain news. For the
first time, I think ever, Salana's total
staking value surpassed that of
Ethereums by market cap. More than 53.9
billion worth of Salana is now staked on
the Salana network across
5,500 or five
55,938 unique wallet holders. And the
Ethereum market cap of staked ETH is
53.93 billion from
34.7 million staked tokens. Uh I do
believe the flipping has reflipped. So
Ethereum is now above Salana's again.
But this is an important token token
metric to keep an eye on as we see
network activity and when people stake
that is a signal of how much belief they
have in the ecosystem and network. So,
congratulations to Salana to rising up
to the top.
Additionally, Ethereum Foundation's new
co-executive director Tomas Stanchek
recently released a tweet over the
weekend stating that he aims to use and
leverage Vitalik's co-ound or Vitalic
Buterine, Ethereum's co-founder to
um to uh perform research and give a
little bit of guidance to the Ethereum
Foundation, but he doesn't want to
leverage Vitalic as the person tasked
with spearheading the direction of the
Ethereum Foundation. Instead, the
co-founder or the co-director of the
Ethereum Foundation aims to shift much
of its research to near-term goals,
which includes addressing user
experience and scaling challenges in
upcoming protocol
upgrades. In SEC or ETF news, excuse me,
Canary Capital has filed for a staked
Tron ETF. Staking ETFs are kind of the
next thing that I'm keeping my eye open
for as in terms of uh crypto ETFs on
Wall Street because I do believe that
once staking ETFs go live then we will
see a new surge in crypto ETF demand as
Wall Street loves to get passive income.
Currently staking Tron or TRX uh has an
annualized yield of around
4.5%. Moving on, recently uh and very
recently as of yesterday, uh there was a
new public filing that showcased uh who
contributed to the Trump Vance inaugural
committee, and some names include
Uniswap CEO Hayden Adams donating more
than
245,000, Salana Labs donating a million,
and Consensus sending over $100,000 in
January of 2025.
So, we can start to see which entities
in the crypto space really wanted this
administration to be in power and who
supports this administration post
election. So, that is a wrap for
everything that happened over the past
couple days in the broader blockchain
and crypto space. If of course you want
to keep up to date with all of our daily
digests, our bimonthly podcast episodes,
and our weekly spaces, head over to our
back/smarteconomy podcast on Reddit to
keep up to date with what we're doing.
With all that said, I'll catch you
tomorrow. Cheers.